Alexei Doell cka067 11345642

Goals

I need to make a TCP server, proxy and client, as well as a UDP server and
TCP-to-UDP proxy. For this, I am using the base templates from Beej's as
recommended by the prof. I will mainly focus on what I all changed from
these base programs as opposed to the things that were already implemented,
e.g. looping through addrinfo structs and then binding to a valid one. As well,
there are some shared functions which I will explain at the start of this design
document.

Shared functions

recvloop(int fd, void* buf, size_t expected) -> int

For all my TCP recv calls, I made a helper function called recvloop which can
be found in shared.c. This function takes an fd to recv from, a buffer to write
to and an expected number of bytes that you wish to receive. recvloop will call
recv until the number of bytes you wish to receive are eventually received. If
the expected number of bytes is not received, recvloop will continue calling
recv until there is some sort of error or the fd is closed from the other end.
If there is an error, the same error code is returned to be handled by the
caller, or if there is no error, the number of bytes received is returned,
but really this doesn't actually matter because it will only return if those
bytes equal the expected bytes. It does make it easy to check for errors though.

caesar(char* buf, size_t len) -> int

This function performs my caesar cipher in place on the given string. All it
does it replace each character in the string from index 0 to len - 1 with the
character 15 places away.

replacement(char* buf, size_t len, char** result) -> int

This function takes a source buffer and loops through it checking for the
substring "RH" and replaces it with "RBEI". In order to accomodate for
potentially overrunning the source buffer, it additionally takes a pointer to 
a char* as an out parameter. Within replacement, there is a buffer that is malloced 
to fit the size of the replacement string with RH->RBEI completed, which is then 
placed into the out parameter. The function returns -1 in an error, or the new 
length of the string, to be used as a length for future send calls.

As well, the two helper functions given in Beej's templates are placed into
shared.c.

TCP Server

For the TCP server, there is not much change from the Beej's stream server
example. In fact there is no actual change at all outside of the fork() call
in the main loop. Within the child process that is forked and given the
new fd for the newly connected client, the child process runs a while loop
that begins with a call to the helper function recvloop.

In the TCP server's child process, the first recvloop expects a network long,
which is used as the expected length of the full message for the next recvloop.
I believe this is standard TCP practice due to its nature as a stream of bytes.
We will always expect a 32bit integer first, then can get exactly that number
of bytes after. Using this integer, I realloc the message buffer in the server
to fit the message and then call recvloop again to get the message from the client.

Once the message is received, caesar is called on the messag. The process then
sends the length of the message, and then the message itself to its client.

Overall, the TCP server is quite simple, it just becomes quite dense due to
the need to check the return values of so many syscalls.

TCP Proxy

The TCP proxy is significantly more involved than the TCP server due to its
two way communication but still isn't that far removed from Beej's template.

As with the TCP server, the parent process of the proxy listens on a port and
when a new connection is accepted, a child process is forked. However, as well
as listening on a port, the proxy also will create an fd that connects to the
TCP server. This fd is shared between all of its children as the single connection
from the proxy to the server. In essence, the proxy (outside of the child loop)
is just Beej's stream client with the stream server binding and listening code
pasted in.

Within the child process, the proxy will basically just do what the TCP server
does, first waiting on a recvloop from the proxy's client, in exactly the same way
that the TCP server recvs from its client, then sends that message to the TCP
server, acting as the client for the TCP server. After this, it once again waits 
on a recvloop for the response from the server, in the exact same way all TCP 
communication has been done (length then message). Once this message is received,
it calls replacement on the response from the server. This creates a new string 
which is then sent along with its length to the proxy process' client.

The majority of the proxy is quite simple, but this time to code becomes even
more dense than the server due to needing to essentially perform the job of the
server twice per message received.

The biggest difference I see in my implementation from Beej's, is my usage of a
mutex between the child processes of the proxy. Due to the fact that the proxy
uses a single connection to the server yet can have multiple child processes
send a message to the server which may be interleaved with eachother due to the
aforementioned single connection, there is a need to ensure that only one of the child
processes of the proxy is sending a message to the server at a time. For this, 
I used the modern (not really modern but just not systemV lol) POSIX shared memory
functions shm_open and mmap to created a shared region of memory between each of the
children.

Within this shared memory, I create a pthreads_mutex_t. I believe there are also
semaphores made specifically for processes in POSIX but I am more familiar with
pthreads. Whenever the child processes need to start sending anything to the
server, they acquire the mutex and release it after they are finished receiving
from the server. I am a bit concerned with the cleanup of the mutex when one of
these child processes is killed, however the use of the signal handler should
allow all the resources of the child to be reclaimed. Managing the lifetimes
of these shared resources is really annoying, but there should not be a memory
leak at the very least. The child processes should be using everything it has
allocated to it, and when it is killed, those resources should be released, so
it is not like there are any resources not being used that are still being owned
by the children. (also I checked it all in valgrind and all heap memory is still
reachable so there's no *real* memory leak)

TCP Client

The TCP client is also essentially identical to Beej's template, except for the
fact that it runs a loop on getline in order to continuously get input from the
user. When it is run, it connects to the given hostname and port and will start
sending the messages it gets from stdin to its server (which may or may not be
one of the two proxies) as length and then the buffer. After it will call
recvloop to get the length and then the response before outputting it to stdout.
The actual code is incredibly simple, it just once again becomes incredibly 
dense due to all the error checking.

The only real addition I think needs to be properly explained is the realloc of
the buffer if the length is greater than or equal to four.
This is due to the fact that if the length of the response is less than four,
that means there was never any replacement done by the proxy. If "RH" is detected,
that means that the buffer originally sent was at least two bytes long, and if
it is then replaced then it will at minimum require a total of four bytes to fit
the string "RBEI" so if the needed length is less than four than there will
never be a need to resize the buffer. However, for redundancy's sake I will reallocate
the buffer to four bytes in case there could be some future proxy that would
take a single character and replace it with two character for example. I am not
entirely sure how getline's allocation works so I am doing this just in case
because realloc seems to fail on allocation sizes less than four bytes yet
getline can take a single character and allocate a buffer to it.

UDP Server

The UDP server is by far the most simple program of the assignment. It simply
binds to a port and loops on recvfrom to receive messages. Unlike the TCP portions,
all it  receives is a buffer up to a certain length (256, because the real max seems
to be 512 for a UDP packet and this leaves some breathing room, but really it's
255 due to me sending the newline as well) and uses the return value of recvfrom 
as a length. It uses the length and the buffer to call caesar and then it just
sends the message back to the sender that was given to it in the recvfrom call 
using sendto. The main difference from the TCP server is the fact that it uses 
a fixed size buffer rather than a allocated buffer. This just makes more sense 
for UDP due to it not being a bytestream, but requires both ends to ensure they 
don't send more than the max buffer length.

UDP Proxy

The UDP proxy runs similarly to the TCP proxy in that it forks child processes
that are given clients that connect to the port that it listens on. However,
instead of connecting to the TCP server beforehand, it simply creates an fd that
is assigned to the port the UDP server is receiving from. Like the TCP proxy,
all the child processes will share this fd and thus have a mutex just like the
one in the TCP proxy. The child processes will wait on a recvloop and after
receiving a message, they will send the message in a single chunk to the UDP
server without sending a length first. After, like the UDP server, it just receives
the full response without getting a length from the UDP server, which it calls
replacement on, then sends the new string to its client.

